Hello everyone and welcome to the data bricks set up lecture data bricks.
A company started by the creator of spark that provides clusters that run on top of Amazon Web Services
and as a convenience feature of having a notebook system of their own already set up and the ability
to quickly add files either from storage like Amazon S3 or from your local computer.
It has a free community version that supports a six gigabyte cluster obviously six gigabytes is small
enough that you wouldn't really need big data but that's the free version.
So it makes sense.
They have their own paid versions as well and also has own storage format known as data bricks file
storage.
So we'll be showing you how to do that as well and this sort of table format that's what they call it
needs to be accessed in a particular way.
So after we set up the data Brick's notebook and upload some data I'm going to show you quickly how
you can create data frame off of a table in a data format.
All right.
So we're going to walk you through how to set up data bricks count how you can upload data and then
said as the data frame so that you can continue on with the rest of the Course as far as recommending
data breaks I would recommend that for people who want the quickest online setup.
It really doesn't take that much time but make sure you actually have a good internet connection to
use data.
All right.
Now to get started we're going to go to David Brigstock dot com slash try.
Data bricks and you're going to need an e-mail that you can have access to as well as your name and
then some company name.
So let's head over to this Web site to see what that's all about.
All right.
Here I am at that link and you see two versions the full platform trial and then the community edition.
The full platform trial that has everything on limited cluster's notebooks dashboards and track the
guy sparking data bricks business intelligence tools and you get a 14 day free trial excluding the Amazon
web service charges that this platform runs on top of.
Now we will be using that instead we'll be using the community edition which has that many six gigabyte
cluster interactive notebooks and dashboards and everything you do I believe is public so anyone can
just view it.
All right let's click on this.
Start today and this will take you to a log in page well a sign a page should say and then what we're
going to do is you're going to fill out your first name last name.
Select the company name.
We're just kind of make one up you don't have one then your work email and this is going to be an e-mail
that you can actually log into because they're going to send you a confirmation link.
You click on the confirmation link and that will take you to the log in page.
Then make up a password.
Confirm that password.
You don't need to provide a phone number and then intended use case you can say taking an online course.
And you know the scriber will roll some student I'm not a robot and then Sign-Up right.
OK.
So fill that out and then go check your email for the confirmation email and then click on that log
in link.
I'm going to hop forward in time to the actual log in a page and then walk through what that actually
looks like.
Once you fill that in in your e-mail you should see something that looks like this was the data brick
community edition and then you want to verify your email address and then you click on that link.
And then what you're going to do is just sign in.
You can see here I'm using a temporary e-mail address so it won't work forever.
All right.
And then once you're logged in it's going to look something like this is going to take a little bit
of time to connect.
But this is what the data Brick's community looks like and there's a lot of featured notebooks which
are kind of nice guides.
For instance if you're interested in data breaks for data scientists or maybe Python or our data Rick's
guide you can just click on any of these and there are already no books that are set up with a marked
down text explanatory text plus some extra code in there.
For instance a scholar version.
So once that downloading can check it out.
So this one in particular is done in Scala and you can see here it says walk.
The data breaks.
It has some introduction series and the other ones for Python for data engineering etc. and it's just
a bunch of explanatory text plus different examples.
So there are some abilities for visualization here that we're not going to really cover in this course
because are more specific to data bricks formatting but they are available as options.
OK.
And you can see here the kind of really focusing on the spark sequel aspect of it.
Now realistically what are you going to use when you come to this home page.
You will click on a new notebook but before you actually create a notebook need to create a cluster
to connect that to.
So that can cluster under new and give this a cluster name call it my first cluster and then we're going
to be using the spark 2.1 auto updating with Skala 2.1 0.
You can also do Skala two point one one but I don't want to go to the absolute latest in case there's
any bugs there.
So keep with this one.
An instance that's fine.
AWOS that's also fine.
And let's create a cluster.
So this is going to create that six gigabyte cluster and it's actually creating it on Amazon Web Services.
So keep in mind that data breaks basically running on top of Amazon Web services and providing this
sort of convenience factor which is really what you're paying for plus some of those visualization tools
and business intelligence tools.
OK.
So while this cluster is created We're going to see something like pending and eventually it will say
something like running or created and you can see our current active clusters as well as your terminated
clusters and there it is it's currently running.
So once you clusters running you can come back to home or data Brick's and then we're going to click
on new notebook.
You can also do this by going to workspace and then seeing your other notebooks there but we'll click
on notebook we'll give it a name like my first notebook Salek Python agile language you can see all
the various API languages for Sparc.
We'll stick with Python and then we want to connect it to a cluster.
In this case we only get one option of cluster because a run in community is created
great.
And so this is what the notebook format looks like on data breaks as the data breaks.
Notebook it's really really similar to a Jupiter notebook runs a lot of the same things and to test
that this is actually working in a say import Paice bark.
And then you do shift enter to run
and there it is.
So tell me how long that command took cetera.
Time you ran it out on your first cluster.
So now I want to walk through how you would actually upload data to data bricks and then how you can
call it into a data frame which is going to be working with throughout the rest of the course.
So click on tables here and tables is basically where you store the data from data.
So click over here and create table and it's going to ask you what is the data source.
So we'll basically be working with files that I provided you from that zip file download.
But you can also do things like connected to Amazon S3 service or even connect It's like a sequel engine.
You can see that your all the using the password and then the actual query you're doing but S-3 you
to provide your key your secret access key the bucket name and you could browse the bucket for some
data but we'll just do a local file and I'm going to click here and upload.
I already have my data.
This is a CSFB file even though has a little Excel icon.
It is a very simple CSFB file and that's basically going to be working with most of the course.
And once you've done that it's really small file it's been uploaded to D-B fast so that they Debrett's
format and you can see here data file system.
And what we're gonna do is say whip's preview table and this and I ask you to fill in some table details
so we'll call this my table for a table name is a CSFB file and then it's going to try to detect what
is the limiter that is what is actually separating the columns themselves.
For all comma separated variables it's almost always a comma.
At least all the ones I'm providing you but sometimes you also do things like a pipe operator or maybe
even a tab.
So keep that in mind and you'll notice here a lot of time Sparke will read the first line not as a header
by default.
So if we look at what my table actually looks like I have a column of names and a column of sales figures.
But these first two instances in the first row is the actual column names.
So I want to detect the first row is the header and there it is.
We have named sales and string is name but sales is not a string.
So I also want to set up the data type that says we can either set this as like a double or floating
point but I'm going to be sending this up as an integer because I can see here that there are all integers
and then I create the table.
Obviously if you had something like 100 point five you would set it up as a floating point number.
So let's create that table.
Now I can see my table has been created.
So let me show you how you can actually access this data in the notebook system.
So you come back to workspace you come back to my first book Double click on it.
Here we are.
So we're going to be working with something called Data frames and we'll talk a lot more about this.
But I just want to show you how you can grab that table data as a data frame.
So in order to actually access all the data and save it to a data frame where we're going to end up
doing is using what's known as a sequel context and a little bit of sequel code or a sequel syntax.
So we'll have whatever you want to call the data frame.
It's really common to just call it the f or data or my data frame etc. I call it Dhia and then I'm going
to set it equal to.
And I will call a sequel context.
Usually if you're running Sparke on another system you would have to import sequel context and set it
up.
But Daybreak's says this automatically for you it's kind of part of the convenience and then you get
to say that sequel and then what you're going to write here is selects select base Asterix from and
then whatever you happen to call the table.
So check back on table you can always click on this.
They'll say what are we called the table we'll call my table.
And then you're going to run shift enter to actually run this.
And this is essentially a sequel query in the sequel contact so it's running on top of spark sequel.
Scrubbing everything in that table and setting it to the data frame and the data frame is what we're
going to be working with throughout the rest of the course.
So this particular line this is just raw data Brick's users we won't really be seeing this sort of thing
throughout the rest of the course.
But if you decide to bricks you know it's for you you really like it.
That's really tough to do for the rest of the course so that we can say DMF and if you just say the
F and run the shift enter it's going to say hey I have a data frame here.
Remember we discussed transformations and actions we actually want to show this.
I need to call an action to show it.
So you say that show open and close print sees shift enter and you can see here we have the name the
sales and then the actual values.
And that's the very basics of using the data bricks platform.
Now also want to point out I do not work for bricks and not affiliated with them in any way.
I don't get a kickback if you guys decide to sign up for their paid program.
The only reason I really show it as a private company which is offering a solution is because they Brick's
was founded by the creator of Sparke.
So not many companies are founded by the actual creator of the software framework that they're built
upon.
So that's really why I wanted to show you data bricks and why it's kind of important that you know the
name and the sort of ecosystem.
OK.
So that's it for bricks.
Feel free to the site to use it if it felt like a good connection for you.
But we're going to move on to a couple of more insulation options but if you're done with this feel
free to move forward.
The actual Python crash course or the spark data section.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.